# [Gold III] De-RNG-ed (Large) - 12556 

[문제 링크](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/12556) 

### 성능 요약

메모리: 111872 KB, 시간: 9648 ms

### 분류

브루트포스 알고리즘, 수학, 정수론

### 제출 일자

2024년 6월 5일 06:11:34

### 문제 설명

<p>I want to make an online poker website. A very important component of such a system is the random number generator. It needs to be fast and random enough. Here is a compromise I came up with. I need a way to generate random numbers of length at most <strong>D</strong>. My plan is to select a prime number <strong>P</strong> ≤ 10<sup><strong>D</strong></sup>. I am also going to pick non-negative integers <strong>A</strong> and <strong>B</strong>. Finally, I'm going to pick an integer seed <strong>S</strong> between 0 and <strong>P</strong>-1, inclusive.</p>

<p>To output my sequence of pseudo-random numbers, I'm going to first output <strong>S</strong> and then compute the new value of <strong>S</strong> like this:<br>
<code><strong>S</strong> := (<strong>A</strong>*<strong>S</strong> + <strong>B</strong>) mod <strong>P</strong>.</code></p>

<p>Then I will output the new value of <strong>S</strong> as the next number in the sequence and update <strong>S</strong>again by using the same formula. I can repeat this as many times as I want.</p>

<p>Do you think that this is a good random number generator? Can you write a program that takes <strong>K</strong> consecutive elements of a sequence that was generated by my random number generator, and prints the next element of the sequence?</p>

### 입력 

 <p>The first line of the input gives the number of test cases, <strong>T</strong>.  <strong>T</strong> test cases follow. Each one starts with a line containing <strong>D</strong> and <strong>K</strong>. The next line contains <strong>K</strong> consecutive elements generated by a random number generator of the kind described above.</p>

<h3>Limits</h3>

<ul>
	<li>1 ≤ <strong>T</strong> ≤ 100.</li>
	<li>1 ≤ <strong>K</strong> ≤ 10.</li>
	<li>The <strong>K</strong> integers will be consecutive elements of a sequence generated by a random number generator of the type described above.</li>
	<li>1 ≤ <strong>D</strong> ≤ 6.</li>
</ul>

### 출력 

 <p>For each test case, output one line containing "Case #x: y", where x is the case number (starting from 1) and y is either the next number in the sequence, or the string "I don't know." if the answer is ambiguous.</p>

